mesh_to_sdf/README.md, before:

# mesh_to_sdf

⚠️ This crate is still in its early stages. Expect the API to change.

---

This crate provides two entry points:

- [`generate_sdf`]: computes the signed distance field for the mesh defined by `vertices` and `indices` at the points `query_points`.
- [`generate_grid_sdf`]: computes the signed distance field for the mesh defined by `vertices` and `indices` on a [Grid].

```rust
// vertices are [f32; 3], but can be cgmath::Vector3<f32>, glam::Vec3, etc.
let vertices: Vec<[f32; 3]> = vec![[0.5, 1.5, 0.5], [1., 2., 3.], [1., 3., 7.]];
let indices: Vec<u32> = vec![0, 1, 2];

// query points must be of the same type as vertices
let query_points: Vec<[f32; 3]> = vec![[0.5, 0.5, 0.5]];

// Query points are expected to be in the same space as the mesh.
let sdf: Vec<f32> = generate_sdf(
    &vertices,
    Topology::TriangleList(Some(&indices)), // TriangleList as opposed to TriangleStrip
    &query_points);

for point in query_points.iter().zip(sdf.iter()) {
    // distance is positive outside the mesh and negative inside.
    println!("Distance to {:?}: {}", point.0, point.1);
}

// if you can, use generate_grid_sdf instead of generate_sdf as it's optimized and much faster.
let bounding_box_min = [0., 0., 0.];
let bounding_box_max = [10., 10., 10.];
let cell_count = [10, 10, 10];

let grid = Grid::from_bounding_box(&bounding_box_min, &bounding_box_max, &cell_count);

let sdf: Vec<f32> = generate_grid_sdf(
    &vertices,
    Topology::TriangleList(Some(&indices)),
    &grid);

for x in 0..cell_count[0] {
    for y in 0..cell_count[1] {
        for z in 0..cell_count[2] {
            let index = grid.get_cell_idx(&[x, y, z]);
            log::info!("Distance to cell [{}, {}, {}]: {}", x, y, z, sdf[index as usize]);
        }
    }
}
```

##### Mesh Topology

Indices can be of any type that implements `Into<u32>`, e.g. `u16` and `u32`. Topology can be list or strip.
If the indices are not provided, they are supposed to be 0..vertices.len().

For vertices, this library aims to be as generic as possible by providing a trait `Point` that can be implemented for any type.
Implementations for most common math libraries are gated behind feature flags. By default, only `[f32; 3]` is provided.
If you do not find your favorite library, feel free to implement the trait for it and submit a PR or open an issue.

##### Using your favorite library

To use your favorite math library with `mesh_to_sdf`, you need to add it to `mesh_to_sdf` dependency. For example, to use `glam`:
```toml
[dependencies]
mesh_to_sdf = { version = "0.1", features = ["glam"] }
```

Currently, the following libraries are supported:
- `cgmath` (`cgmath::Vector3<f32>`)
- `glam` (`glam::Vec3`)
- `mint` (`mint::Vector3<f32>` and `mint::Point3<f32>`)
- `nalgebra` (`nalgebra::Vector3<f32>` and `nalgebra::Point3<f32>`)
- and `[f32; 3]`

##### Determining inside/outside

As of now, sign is computed by checking the normals of the triangles. This is not robust and might lead to negative distances leaking outside the mesh in pyramidal shapes.
A more robust solution is planned for the future.

##### Benchmarks

[`generate_grid_sdf`] is much faster than [`generate_sdf`] and should be used whenever possible.
[`generate_sdf`] does not allocate memory (except for the result array) but is slow. A faster implementation is planned for the future.

License: MIT OR Apache-2.0

Commit message:

Add SignMethod enum and SignMethod::Raycast for sign method computation

mesh_to_sdf/README.md, after:

# mesh_to_sdf

⚠️ This crate is still in its early stages. Expect the API to change.

---

This crate provides two entry points:

- [`generate_sdf`]: computes the signed distance field for the mesh defined by `vertices` and `indices` at the points `query_points`.
- [`generate_grid_sdf`]: computes the signed distance field for the mesh defined by `vertices` and `indices` on a [Grid].

```rust
use mesh_to_sdf::{generate_sdf, generate_grid_sdf, SignMethod, Topology, Grid};
// vertices are [f32; 3], but can be cgmath::Vector3<f32>, glam::Vec3, etc.
let vertices: Vec<[f32; 3]> = vec![[0.5, 1.5, 0.5], [1., 2., 3.], [1., 3., 7.]];
let indices: Vec<u32> = vec![0, 1, 2];

// query points must be of the same type as vertices
let query_points: Vec<[f32; 3]> = vec![[0.5, 0.5, 0.5]];

// Query points are expected to be in the same space as the mesh.
let sdf: Vec<f32> = generate_sdf(
    &vertices,
    Topology::TriangleList(Some(&indices)), // TriangleList as opposed to TriangleStrip
    &query_points,
    SignMethod::Raycast, // How the sign is computed.
);                       // Raycast is robust but requires the mesh to be watertight.

for point in query_points.iter().zip(sdf.iter()) {
    // distance is positive outside the mesh and negative inside.
    println!("Distance to {:?}: {}", point.0, point.1);
}

// if you can, use generate_grid_sdf instead of generate_sdf as it's optimized and much faster.
let bounding_box_min = [0., 0., 0.];
let bounding_box_max = [10., 10., 10.];
let cell_count = [10, 10, 10];

let grid = Grid::from_bounding_box(&bounding_box_min, &bounding_box_max, &cell_count);

let sdf: Vec<f32> = generate_grid_sdf(
    &vertices,
    Topology::TriangleList(Some(&indices)),
    &grid,
    SignMethod::Raycast, // How the sign is computed.
);                       // Raycast is robust but requires the mesh to be watertight.

for x in 0..cell_count[0] {
    for y in 0..cell_count[1] {
        for z in 0..cell_count[2] {
            let index = grid.get_cell_idx(&[x, y, z]);
            log::info!("Distance to cell [{}, {}, {}]: {}", x, y, z, sdf[index as usize]);
        }
    }
}
```

---

##### Mesh Topology

Indices can be of any type that implements `Into<u32>`, e.g. `u16` and `u32`. Topology can be list or strip.
If the indices are not provided, they are supposed to be `0..vertices.len()`.

For vertices, this library aims to be as generic as possible by providing a trait `Point` that can be implemented for any type.
Implementations for most common math libraries are gated behind feature flags. By default, only `[f32; 3]` is provided.
If you do not find your favorite library, feel free to implement the trait for it and submit a PR or open an issue.

---

##### Computing sign

This crate provides two methods to compute the sign of the distance:
- `SignMethod::Raycast` (default): a robust method to compute the sign of the distance. It counts the number of intersection between a ray starting from the query point and the triangles of the mesh.
    It only works for watertight meshes, but garantees the sign is correct.
- `SignMethod::Normal`: It uses the normals of the triangles to estimate the sign by doing a dot product with the direction of the query point.
    It works for non-watertight meshes but might leak negative distances outside the mesh.

For grid generation, `Raycast` is ~1% slower.
For query points, `Raycast` is ~10% slower.
Note that it depends on the query points / grid size to triangle ratio, but this gives a rough idea.

---

##### Using your favorite library

To use your favorite math library with `mesh_to_sdf`, you need to add it to `mesh_to_sdf` dependency. For example, to use `glam`:
```toml
[dependencies]
mesh_to_sdf = { version = "0.2.0", features = ["glam"] }
```

Currently, the following libraries are supported:
- `cgmath` (`cgmath::Vector3<f32>`)
- `glam` (`glam::Vec3`)
- `mint` (`mint::Vector3<f32>` and `mint::Point3<f32>`)
- `nalgebra` (`nalgebra::Vector3<f32>` and `nalgebra::Point3<f32>`)
- `[f32; 3]`

---

##### Benchmarks

[`generate_grid_sdf`] is much faster than [`generate_sdf`] and should be used whenever possible.
[`generate_sdf`] does not allocate memory (except for the result array) but is slow. A faster implementation is planned for the future.
[`SignMethod::Raycast`] is slightly slower than [`SignMethod::Normal`] but is robust and should be used whenever possible (~1% in [`generate_grid_sdf`], ~10% in [`generate_sdf`]).

License: MIT OR Apache-2.0
